h1. jQuery Air - First Flight

The First Flight tutorial is designed to be a gentle introduction to the why and how of basic jQuery usage.  It's intended for developers who are familiar with some programming language, but not JavaScript.  While we'll cover a bit of JS, the emphasis of the tutorial is to stay in the easy sandbox of jQuery.  We assume a working knowledge of CSS including basic IDs, Classes, and simple attributes.

h2. Outline

# Fuel Up
  * Why Use jQuery
  * Just Enough JavaScript
  * Loading jQuery in a Browser
  * How to use this tutorial
  # Take Off with Selectors
  * Why we need selectors
  * Selecting by ID
  * Selecting by Class
  * Matching Sets vs Individual Elements
  * _Selective Seating Part 1_
  * Matching Multiples
  * Using CSS3 Attributes
  * _Selective Seating Part 2_
  * Adding Logic
  * _Selective Seating Part 3_
  * Review
# View From 30,000 Feet
  * Manipulating CSS    
  * Reading existing attributes
    * css() query
    * css() setter
  * _Mapping Part 1_
  * Setting multiple attributes
  * Using the shortcut commands (border, etc?)
  * _Mapping Part 2_
  * Being Smart about CSS
  * Manipulating Classes
    * add_class()
    * remove_class()
    * toggle_class()
  * _Mapping Part 3_
  * Hiding and Showing
    * hide()
    * show()
    * toggle()
  * _Mapping Part 4_
  * Review
# Changing Plans
  * Why Manipulate the DOM
  * Understanding the DOM Tree
  * Reading Existing Content
    * text
    * html
  * _In Case of Emergency Part 1_
  * Inserting Content
    * text(new content)
    * html(new content)
    * prepend and prepend_to
    * append and append_to
  * _In Case of Emergency Part 2_    
  * Removing Content
    * remove()
    * remove with matcher parameters
  * Rearranging Content
  * _In Case of Emergency Part 3_
  * Pulling External Content AJAX-style
  * _In Case of Emergency Part 4_
  * Review
# Weather Happens
  * Introducing Events
  * Environmental Events
    * Page Load
    * Time Duration
    * Time Interval
    * ?
  * User-Generated Events
    * Mouse Down
    * Mouse Up
    * Click
    * Mouseover
    * Key Down
    * Key Up
    * Key Press
# ??? (Animations)
# ??? (Forms)
# Landing
  * Review of What We've Learned
  * (Need a last project that brings it all together)
# Regular Maintainance
  * Tools for Writing jQuery
  * Tools and techniques for debugging
# Flight School - Resources to Continue Learning
  * Courses
    * jQuery Air Series
      * Understanding AJAX
      * Testing your jQuery
    * jQuery Jumpstart
    * Bocoup Training
  * Books
    * jQuery Novice to Ninja
    * JavaScript the Good Parts
  * Videos
    * Peepcode

h2. Labs

  h3. Lab 1: Selective Seating
    h4. Part 1: Simple Matching with IDs and Classes
    h4. Part 2: Using CSS3 Attributes
    h4. Part 3: Adding Logical Operators
  h3. Lab 2: Mapping
    h4. Part 1: 
  h3. Lab 3: In the Event of Emergency
    h4. Part 1:
  h3. Lab 4: Your Cockpit
    h4. Part 1:
  h3. Lab 5: Landing
  
    
  
h2. To-Dos

h2. Script

